= RBrainz - Ruby MusicBrainz library
RBrainz is a Ruby client library to access the MusicBrainz XML webservice,
which can be used to query the MusicBrainz database.

RBrainz is written in Ruby and follows the design of
PythonMusicBrainz2[http://musicbrainz.org/doc/PythonMusicBrainz2],
the reference implementation for a MusicBrainz client library. Developers
used to PythonMusicBrainz2 should already know most of RBrainz' interface.
However, RBrainz differs from PythonMusicBrainz2 wherever it makes the
library more Ruby like or easier to use.

RBrainz supports the MusicBrainz XML Metadata Version 1.2, including support
for labels and extended release events.

== Installation
=== Installing with RubyGems
The easiest way to install the latest release of RBrainz is using
RubyGems[http://rubygems.org] by executing the following command:
 gem install rbrainz
 
=== Manual installation
If you downloaded the RBRainz source package or checked out the latest version
from SVN you can install it with
 rake install
 
You still need RubyGems for the installation to succeed.

== Basic usage
The most important classes in this library are the model classes
MusicBrainz::Model::Artist, MusicBrainz::Model::Release,
MusicBrainz::Model::Track and MusicBrainz::Model::Label
together with MusicBrainz::Webservice::Query. The Query class
provides an easy to use interface to query the MusicBrainz webservice.
It will always return one of the model classes above or a
MusicBrainz::Model::ScoredCollection of those classes. The example below
should make the usage clear:

 require 'rbrainz'
 include MusicBrainz
 
 # Create an MBID object which represents a MusicBrainz artist ID.
 mbid = Model::MBID.new('c0b2500e-0cef-4130-869d-732b23ed9df5', :artist)

 # With the ArtistInclude object we can control what kind of information
 # the MusicBrainz server will include in its answer.
 artist_includes = Webservice::ArtistIncludes.new(
   :aliases      => true,
   :releases     => ['Album', 'Official'],
   :artist_rels  => true,
   :release_rels => true,
   :track_rels   => true,
   :label_rels   => true,
   :url_rels     => true
 )
 
 # Query the webservice for the artist with the above ID
 # The result will contain all the information specified
 # in artist_includes.
 q = Webservice::Query.new
 artist = q.get_artist_by_id(mbid, artist_includes)

== The MusicBrainz webservice
For more information about the MusicBrainz webservice visit the
following resources:
- MusicBrainzXMLWebService[http://musicbrainz.org/doc/XMLWebService]
- MusicBrainzXMLMetaData[http://musicbrainz.org/doc/MusicBrainzXMLMetaData]

== Contact
For more information about RBrainz visit http://rbrainz.rubyforge.org.

If you have any questions or suggestions regarding RBrainz please write to
the rbrainz-user mailinglist[http://rubyforge.org/mail/?group_id=3677].
If you find bugs or if you have any feature requests please use the
RBrainz bug tracker[http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?group_id=3677]. 

== Authors
* Nigel Graham
* Philipp Wolfer

== License
RBrainz is Copyright (c) 2007 Philipp Wolfer and Nigel Graham.
It is free softare distributed under a BSD style license. See
LICENSE[link:files/LICENSE.html] for details.

$Id$